Soon after the governing body released a revised English edition of the New World Translation,
they decided to revise a Spanish edition.
They wanted it to be a modern, understandable translation for the entire Spanish-speaking
world.
Spanish is a mother tongue of around 480 million people, and it is also the most widely
spoken language among Jehovah's Witnesses.
This translation project would be a unique challenge.
It eventually took four and a half years to complete.
Why did it take so long?
Apart from the translation process itself, the work was complicated by the wide,
graphic range of these Hispanic countries and their different cultures.
It is diversity meant that in different countries, the same Spanish word could mean different
things.
In other cases, the word may be unknown in certain areas or even sound objectionable
to some.
To overcome these difficulties, the translators used 100 outside readers for many different
countries to review the translated text progressively.
These readers were of different ages, cultures and backgrounds.
These outside readers regularly received chapters of the Bible electronically, and then they
introduced their suggested revisions.
The translation teams took note of all their recommendations, and in some cases they
also sent them specific inquiries.
Every verse was checked by 130 different people.
Naturally, all of this took time.
The work was finished in the spring of 2019, but then another challenge arose.
We needed to print millions of Bibles to satisfy the demand of the Spanish-speaking
field.
This was a huge job for our printing presses in the United States and Japan.
Despite working night and day, the task would take a long time, and naturally everyone
wanted to have the Bible right away.
So right at the Madrid International Convention, the governing body decided to release the Bible
in digital format.
This was several months before all the Bibles could be printed.
The highlight of the Friday morning convention program was when Brother Loas presented the
new Revised Bible, but there was another surprise.
Since I think I mentioned, most brothers and sisters had their phones and tablets with
them, they were able to immediately download the Revised Bible.
How is that possible?
500 portable Wi-Fi devices were distributed among each of the 11 convention venues in Spain
that were tied in with the Madrid Stadium.
During the lunch break on Friday, practically everyone in attendance could download the
Revised Spanish edition of the New World Translation.
More than 1,200 volunteers were trained to give technical support to those who needed
it.
In this way, the brothers started to use the Revised Translation right away during the afternoon
program.
We laughed and cried with joy.
We knew it was a gift from Jehovah, which he was given as at that moment, and also we
felt so happy because we'd been waiting a long time for it.
What I most like about this revision is that it's very easy to understand.
Sometimes I think, but was this what we had before?
It seems that it reaches my heart much quicker.
As you use it, you realise that many scriptures have been adjusted, and that the faithful
slave has worked very hard to make it easier to understand.
Without a doubt, this Revised edition of the New World Translation is a wonderful gift
for all our Spanish-speaking brothers.
The Word of God has power, and this will be a powerful tool to help many people get to
know Jehovah.